---
layout: post
title:  "Chapter Four: Reset"
date:   2018-09-18 03:00:00
categories: life
description: "Every year, especially after my birthday, I try to take stock of my life &mdash; measure, assess and recalibrate &mdash;and this year was no different."
---
> _“There is no real ending. It’s just the place where you stop the story.” 
― Frank Herbert_

Every year, especially after my birthday, I try to take stock of my life &mdash; measure, assess and recalibrate &mdash; and this year was no different. 2018 has been quite monumental for me, first I crossed the one score and a decade age bracket, Lee is a few months from his second birthday(wild, I have been a father for almost 2 years, it still feels like a dream). In a couple of months, we will be celebrating our 5th wedding anniversary(I still remember asking Nene to marry me. It feels like yesterday. By the way Nene, I still have the receipt to your engagement ring) and I have hit handful goals and milestones. 

Exactly 2 years ago, I joined Andela and boy, it has been an incredible ride. So what has happened in these two years? From the interesting airport encounter to working with amazing Andela partners, making good friends and hopefully, lasting relationships, a lot has happened. Loads of learning, growing, reflection, opportunities and most importantly, an opportunity to work with some incredible humans. 

But as with everything in life, the journey ends here. It's a bitter-sweet one, bitter because I will miss some of the incredible people that I spent the last 2 years working with, sweet because I had the opportunity to contribute in grooming the next technology leaders. For this opportunity, I will be eternally grateful. 

**So what's next?**

I will assume my full-time role as a house husband. This will afford me the opportunity to spend some time with Lee. I need to do this, especially now that he is becoming self-aware. Who doesn't need their daddy?

In the last couple of months, I have also gathered a couple of books that time didn't permit me to read. I will use this time to get back to them. 

One of my goals for 2018 was to learn how to play the guitar, I should be doing that. I will also be taking swimming lessons &mdash; point me to any instructor on the mainland (Lagos). 

Lastly, to everyone that made this journey incredibly exciting for me, I say thank you. God bless you all.

Onwards. 
