---
layout: post
title:  "Random thought on emerging roles and future of work"
date:   2020-05-23 17:00:00
categories: tech
description: "A new role that will pop up soon will be “Head of remote ops.” We will have entire dept dedicated towards supporting remote operations. "
---
A new role that will pop up soon will be “Head of remote ops.” We will have entire dept dedicated towards supporting remote operations. 

Beautiful to watch this unfold.  I guess we will stop explaining to people what it means to work “remotely.”

We will have bespoke companies whose sole job will be helping companies navigate different countries regulations; compensation, taxes, health benefits and even pension funds.

Companies with large enough workforce in different cities will figure out how to plan hangouts and “TGIFs.” 

We can’t entirely do away with the human connection. So may be once every quarter, there will be budget for staff of company X living in city Y to hangout together.

This turn of event may or may not bring about significant changes in co-working spaces, instead I see more people going to cafés to get work done. 

Co-working spaces will need to spice up their offers to make things enticing; after 6PM jam sessions, yoga, etc. Hello WeWork.

More homes will now be forced to carve out dedicated workspace/home office.  

Therapists will be needed more than ever before to help people cope with burnouts and all. 

Companies may have to employ them full time.

“How we work remotely” will now be a standard in company’s handbook and onboarding sessions.

Company directories will now be standard. Sort of who to talk to when you need X. 

We may end up with regional remote ops coordinators too.

Cities will start investing in infrastructure to make remote work and living there conducive. 

This will also have ripple effects on the economy of these cities. I will move to city X if it’s great and has good infrastructure. 

The second phase of talent war is about to begin.